[Doc Feature] [Requirements Targeting][3259380] (#11018)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview.md

For information on how to enable developer preview, see [public developer preview for Microsoft Teams](~/resources/dev-preview/developer-preview-intro.md).

> > [!NOTE]

Author: I was thinking it was legacy from before MOS apps were GA (v1.13) but I will reinstate

For information on how to enable developer preview, see [public developer preview for Microsoft Teams](~/resources/dev-preview/developer-preview-intro.md).

> The app manifest describes how the app integrates into the Microsoft Teams platform. Your app manifest must conform to the schema hosted at [`https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/vDevPreview/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json`](https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/vDevPreview/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
App manifest describes how the app integrates into the Microsoft Teams platform. Your app manifest must conform to the schema hosted at [`https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/vDevPreview/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json`](https://developer.microsoft.com/json-schemas/teams/vDevPreview/MicrosoftTeams.schema.json).
```

        "color32x32": "%FILENAME-32x32px%"
    },
    "accentColor": "%HEX-COLOR%",
    "elementRelationshipSet": {
      "oneWayDependencies" : [
        {
          "element" : {
            "name" : "composeExtensions",
            "id" : "composeExtension-id",

>             "commandIds": ["command-1-id", "command-2-id"]  // Developers can add more commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "commandIds": ["command-1-id", "command-2-id"]  // You can add more commands.
```

          },
          "dependsOn" : [
              {"name" : "bots", "id" : "bot-id"}
          ]
        }
      ],
      "mutualDependencies" : [
                {"name" : "bots", "id" : "bot-id"}, 
                {"name" : "staticTabs", "id" : "staticTab-id"},
                {"name" : "composeExtensions", "id" : "composeExtension-id"},
                {"name" : "configurableTabs", "id": "configurableTab-id"}
      ]
    },
    "configurableTabs": [
        {

>             "id": "configurableTab-id", // Use for including configurableTab in elementRelationshipSet

Author: The comment here explains what this new ID property is used for (and the reason you should set it). Are we sure we want to delete?

>             "id": "configurableTab-id", // Use for including configurableTab in elementRelationshipSet

Reviewer: @erikadoyle, the schema doesn't have any comments. So, for the sake of consistency, I suggested we remove it. We can insert it in the code snippets in the main article.

        "color32x32": "%FILENAME-32x32px%"
    },
    "accentColor": "%HEX-COLOR%",
    "elementRelationshipSet": {
      "oneWayDependencies" : [
        {
          "element" : {
            "name" : "composeExtensions",
            "id" : "composeExtension-id",

>             "commandIds": ["command-1-id", "command-2-id"]

Reviewer 2: Nit: per previous user testing w/ C4S, user has pointed out a minor inconsistency between line 65's command IDs and line 180 and 198's actual ones below. Supposedly line 65's should be [exampleCmd1, exampleCmd2] to match the ones down below. @erikadoyle

    "composeExtensions": [
        {
            "botId": "%MICROSOFT-APP-ID-REGISTERED-WITH-BOT-FRAMEWORK%",

>             "id": "composeExtension-id", // Use for including composeExtension in elementRelationshipSet

Author: Same for this one--are we sure we want to remove?

The value must be a valid HTML color code starting with '#', for example `#4464ee`.

## elementRelationshipSet

**Optional** &ndash; Object

Describes relationships among individual app components, including as `staticTabs`, `configurableTabs`, `composeExtensions`, and `bots`. Used to specify runtime dependencies to ensure that the app only launches from applicable Microsoft 365 hosts, such as Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 (Office) app. See [Specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `oneWayDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more unidirectional dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `oneWayDependency` object)|
| `mutualDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more mutual dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `mutualDependency` object)|

### elementRelationshipSet.oneWayDependency

> Describes a unidirectional dependency of one app component to another. If a Microsoft 365 runtime host doesn't support a required component, that component will not load or otherwise surface to the end-user.

Author: Good call! Incorporated that suggestion.

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| `element`| Object||✔️| Represents an individual app component that has a one-way runtime dependency on another component being loaded |

> | `element.name`| String|| ✔️| The type of app component. Supported values: `bots`, `staticTabs`, `composeExtensions`, `configurableTabs`|

Author: I'm seeing `String enum` elsewhere in the manifest reference. How about we use that?

| `element.commandIds` | Array of strings||| List of one or more message extension (`composeExtensions`) commands that are dependent on the specified `dependsOn` component.|
| `dependsOn`| Array|| ✔️| Denotes one or more app components required for the specified `element` to load|
| `dependsOn.name`| String||✔️| The type of app component. Supported values: `bots`, `staticTabs`, `composeExtensions`, `configurableTabs`|
| `dependsOn.id` | String|| ✔️| The specific instance of the bot, tab, or message extension. Maps to `botId` for bots, `entityId` for staticTabs, `id` for configurableTabs, and `id` for composeExtensions.|

### elementRelationshipSet.mutualDependencies

Describes a set of mutual dependencies between two or more app components. A Microsoft 365 runtime host must support all required components in order for any of those components to be available for end-users in that host.

**Optional** &ndash; Array

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `name`|String|| ✔️| The type of app component. Supported values: `bots`, `staticTabs`, `composeExtensions`, `configurableTabs`|

Author: Sounds good. I broke out ['element' object](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview?branch=pr-en-us-11018#element-object) into a separate section (right after `elementRelationshipSet` explanation) and tried to simplfy explanation to customers w/linking and example usage. How does this look now: https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/resources/schema/manifest-schema-dev-preview?branch=pr-en-us-11018#element-object

The value must be a valid HTML color code starting with '#', for example `#4464ee`.

## elementRelationshipSet

**Optional** &ndash; Object

> Describes relationships among individual app components, including  `staticTabs`, `configurableTabs`, `composeExtensions`, and `bots`. Used to specify runtime dependencies to ensure that the app only launches from applicable Microsoft 365 hosts, such as Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 (Office) app. See [Specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes relationships among individual app components, including  `staticTabs`, `configurableTabs`, `composeExtensions`, and `bots`. It's used to specify runtime dependencies to ensure that the app only launches from applicable Microsoft 365 hosts, such as Teams, Outlook, and the Microsoft 365 (Office) app. See [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.
```

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `oneWayDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more unidirectional dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `oneWayDependency` object with *dependent* (`element`) and *depended on* (`dependsOn`) [`element` objects](#element-object))|

Reviewer: > Array containing one or more unidirectional dependency relationships among app components
@erikadoyle, since we have already mentioned the data type as an array, can we simply start the sentence as "Contains one or more..."

> | `oneWayDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more unidirectional dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `oneWayDependency` object with *dependent* (`element`) and *depended on* (`dependsOn`) [`element` objects](#element-object))|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `oneWayDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more unidirectional dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `oneWayDependency` object with *dependent* (`element`) and *depended on* (`dependsOn`) [`element` objects](#element-object)).|
```

> | `mutualDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more mutual dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `mutualDependency` array of [`element` objects](#element-object))|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `mutualDependencies`| Array|||Array containing one or more mutual dependency relationships among app components (each represented by `mutualDependency` array of [`element` objects](#element-object)).|
```

### element object

Describes an app component (`element`) in an elementRelationshipSet.

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `name`| String enum|| ✔️| The type of app component. Supported values: `bots`, `staticTabs`, `composeExtensions`, `configurableTabs`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `name`| String enum|| ✔️| The type of app component. Supported values: `bots`, `staticTabs`, `composeExtensions`, `configurableTabs`.|
```

> | `id` | String|| ✔️| The specific instance of the bot, tab, or message extension. Maps to `botId` for bots, `entityId` for staticTabs, `id` for configurableTabs, and `id` for composeExtensions.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String|| ✔️| The specific instance of the bot, tab, or message extension. Maps to `botId` for bots, `entityId` for static tabs, and `id` for configurable tabs, and message extensions.|
```

> | `id` | String|| ✔️| The specific instance of the bot, tab, or message extension. Maps to `botId` for bots, `entityId` for static tabs, and `id` for configurable tabs, and message extensions.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `id` | String | | ✔️| The specific instance of the bot, tab, or message extension. Maps to `botId` for bots, `entityId` for static tabs, and `id` for configurable tabs and message extensions. |
```

| `commandIds` | Array of strings||| List of one or more message extension commands that are dependent on the specified `dependsOn` component. Use only for message extension (`"name" : "composeExtensions"`) component elements in relationship sets.|

### elementRelationshipSet.oneWayDependency

> Describes a unidirectional dependency of one app component (X) to another (Y). If a Microsoft 365 runtime host doesn't support a required component (Y), the dependent component (X) won't load or otherwise surface to the end-user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes a unidirectional dependency of one app component (X) to another (Y). If a Microsoft 365 runtime host doesn't support a required component (Y), the dependent component (X) won't load or otherwise surface to the user.
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `element`| Object||✔️| Represents an individual app component (represented by [`element` object](#element-object)) that has a one-way runtime dependency on another component being loaded |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `element`| Object||✔️| Represents an individual app component (represented by [`element` object](#element-object)) that has a one-way runtime dependency on another component being loaded. |
```

> | `dependsOn`| Array|| ✔️| Denotes one or more app components (each represented by [`element` object](#element-object)) required for the specified `element` to load|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `dependsOn`| Array|| ✔️| Denotes one or more app components (each represented by [`element` object](#element-object)) required for the specified `element` to load|
```
```suggestion
| `dependsOn`| Array|| ✔️| Denotes one or more app components (each represented by [`element` object](#element-object)) required for the specified `element` to load.|
```

> ```json

Author: We can remove it so we're only maintaining one sample in the article.

 "elementRelationshipSet": {
      "oneWayDependencies" : [
        {
          "element" : {
            "name" : "composeExtensions",
            "id" : "composeExtension-id",

>             "commandIds": ["command-1-id", "command-2-id"]  // Developers can add more commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "commandIds": ["command-1-id", "command-2-id"]  // You can add more commands.
```

          },
          "dependsOn" : [
              {"name" : "bots", "id" : "bot-id"}
            ]
        }
      ]
    }
```

### elementRelationshipSet.mutualDependencies

> Describes a set of mutual dependencies between two or more app components. A Microsoft 365 runtime host must support all required components in order for any of those components to be available for end-users in that host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes a set of mutual dependencies between two or more app components. A Microsoft 365 runtime host must support all required components for any of those components to be available for users in that host.
```

|`searchUrl`|String|2048 characters||The https:// URL to direct a user's search queries.|
|`context`|Array of enum|8||The set of `contextItem` scopes to which a tab belongs. <br>Default values: `personalTab`, `channelTab`, `privateChatTab`, `meetingChatTab`, `meetingDetailsTab`, `meetingSidePanel`, `meetingStage`, `teamLevelApp`|
|`supportedPlatform`|Array of enum|3||The set of `supportedPlatform` scopes to which a tab belongs. <br>Default values: `desktop`, `mobile`, `teamsMeetingDevices`|
|`requirementSet`|Object|||Runtime requirements for the tab to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the tab.|

### staticTabs.requirementSet

> Describes the runtime requirements for the tab to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the tab. For more information, see [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the tab requires to function properly.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the tab requires to function properly. For more information, see [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md). |
```

|`searchUrl`|String|2048 characters||The https:// URL to direct a user's search queries.|
|`context`|Array of enum|8||The set of `contextItem` scopes to which a tab belongs. <br>Default values: `personalTab`, `channelTab`, `privateChatTab`, `meetingChatTab`, `meetingDetailsTab`, `meetingSidePanel`, `meetingStage`, `teamLevelApp`|
|`supportedPlatform`|Array of enum|3||The set of `supportedPlatform` scopes to which a tab belongs. <br>Default values: `desktop`, `mobile`, `teamsMeetingDevices`|

> |`requirementSet`|Object|||Runtime requirements for the tab to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the tab.|

Reviewer: @erikadoyle, how do we reduce the content redundancy here? Just thinking out loud, can we skip directly to `staticTabs.requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities` and refer to one of the code snippets? Let me know if you have any ideas. Applicable to both bots and message extensions down the line.

Author: It's a fair point, but should we do it? I'm thinking refactoring makes it easier for us to maintain, but puts burden on the customer (who then must jump around the doc and potentially lose context of their tab/bot/composeExtension documentation).

Reviewer: @erikadoyle, I agree with you that refactoring is advantageous here. If we are to help the reader jump around less, we'd need to double down here - keep the original content (or trim it) and add multiple H3s here.

If we want to eliminate content redundancy, we can go with either skipping directly to `capability.requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities` or add multiple H3s here. @v-deabira, @v-npaladugu, thoughts?

Author: Thanks--commited your inline suggestions

### staticTabs.requirementSet

> Describes the runtime requirements for the tab to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the tab. See [Specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes the runtime requirements for the tab to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the tab. See [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  Species one or more runtime capabilities that are required by the tab to function properly.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities required by the tab to function properly.|
```

#### staticTabs.requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities

Describes the runtime requirements for the tab to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the tab. Supported values correspond to the following TeamsJS capabilities: `dialogUrl` to [dialog.url](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.url), `dialogUrlBot` to [dialog.url.bot](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.url.bot), `dialogAdaptiveCard` to [dialog.adaptiveCard](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.adaptivecard), and `dialogAdaptiveCardBot` to [dialog.adaptiveCard.bot](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.adaptivecard.bot).

**Optional** &ndash; Array

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the tab to function properly, specified as name/value pairs, for example: `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the tab to function properly, specified as name/value pairs. For example, `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |
```
```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the tab to function properly, specified as name/value pairs, for example: `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |
```

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the tab to function properly, specified as name/value pairs. For example, `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the tab to function properly, specified as name-value pairs. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |
```

|`items.scopes`|Array of enum|3|✔️|Specifies the scope for which the command list is valid. Options are `team`, `personal`, and `groupChat`.|
|`items.commands`|Array of objects|10|✔️|An array of commands the bot supports:<br>`title`: the bot command name (string, 32).<br>`description`: a simple description or example of the command syntax and its argument (string, 128).|

### bots.requirementSet

> Describes the runtime requirements for the bot to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the bot. For more information, see [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the bot requires to function properly.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the bot requires to function properly. For more information, see [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md). |
```

|`items.scopes`|Array of enum|3|✔️|Specifies the scope for which the command list is valid. Options are `team`, `personal`, and `groupChat`.|
|`items.commands`|Array of objects|10|✔️|An array of commands the bot supports:<br>`title`: the bot command name (string, 32).<br>`description`: a simple description or example of the command syntax and its argument (string, 128).|

### bots.requirementSet

> Describes the runtime requirements for the bot to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the bot. See [Specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes the runtime requirements for the bot to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the bot. See [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  Species on or more runtime capabilities that are required by the bot to function properly.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the bot requires to function properly.|
```

#### bots.requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities

Describes the runtime requirements for the bot to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the bot. Supported values correspond to the following TeamsJS capabilities: `dialogUrl` to [dialog.url](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.url), `dialogUrlBot` to [dialog.url.bot](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.url.bot), `dialogAdaptiveCard` to [dialog.adaptiveCard](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.adaptivecard), and `dialogAdaptiveCardBot` to [dialog.adaptiveCard.bot](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.adaptivecard.bot).

**Optional** &ndash; Array

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the bot to function properly, specified as name/value pairs, for example: `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the bot to function properly, specified as name/value pairs. For example, `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |
```

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the bot to function properly, specified as name/value pairs. For example, `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the bot to function properly, specified as name-value pairs. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |
```

|Name| Type | Maximum Size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> |`id`|String||| Unique identifier for compose extension. Used when defining one-way and mutual app component dependencies as [elementRelationshipSet](#elementrelationshipset).|

Reviewer: > Unique identifier for compose extension.

@erikadoyle, do you mean `composeExtension` or message extension?

Author: Seems like the convention here is to say "message extension". Updated.

Reviewer: Agreed, @erikadoyle. Let's stick with message extension.

|Name| Type | Maximum Size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> |`id`|String||| Unique identifier for the message extension. Used when defining one-way and mutual app component dependencies as [elementRelationshipSet](#elementrelationshipset).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`id`|String||| Unique identifier for the message extension. Used when defining one-way and mutual app component dependencies as [elementRelationshipSet](#elementrelationshipset).|
```
```suggestion
|`id`|String||| Unique identifier for the message extension. Used when defining one-way and mutual app capability dependencies under [elementRelationshipSet](#elementrelationshipset).|
```

|`messageHandlers.type`|String|||The type of message handler. Must be `"link"`.|
|`messageHandlers.value.domains`|Array of Strings|2048 characters||Array of domains that the link message handler can register for.|
|`messageHandlers.supportsAnonymizedPayloads`|Boolean|||A Boolean value that indicates whether the app's link message handler supports anonymous invoke flow. <br>Default value: `false` <br> To enable zero install for link unfurling, the value needs to be set to `true`. <br/> **Note**: The property `supportAnonymousAccess` is superseded by `supportsAnonymizedPayloads`.|

> |`type`     |  Type of the message extension.  Supported values are `apiBased` or `botBased`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `type` | Type of the message extension. Supported values are `apiBased` or `botBased`. |
```

|`parameter.choices.title`|String|128 characters|✔️|Title of the choice.|
|`parameter.choices.value`|String|512 characters|✔️|Value of the choice.|

### composeExtensions.requirementSet

> Describes the runtime requirements for the message extension to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the message extension. For more information, see [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the message extension requires to function properly.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the message extension requires to function properly. For more information, see [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md). |
```

|`parameter.choices.title`|String|128 characters|✔️|Title of the choice.|
|`parameter.choices.value`|String|512 characters|✔️|Value of the choice.|

### composeExtensions.requirementSet

> Describes the runtime requirements for the message extension to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the message extension. See [Specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Describes the runtime requirements for the message extension to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the message extension. See [how to specify runtime requirements in your app manifest](../../m365-apps/specify-runtime-requirements.md) for more info.
```

**Optional** &ndash; Object

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  Species on or more runtime capabilities that are required by the message extension to function properly.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| Specifies one or more runtime capabilities the message extension requires to function properly.|
```

#### composeExtensions.requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities

Describes the runtime requirements for the message extension to function properly in the Microsoft 365 host application. If one or more of the requirements aren't supported by the runtime host, the host won't load the message extension. Supported values correspond to the following TeamsJS capabilities: `dialogUrl` to [dialog.url](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.url), `dialogUrlBot` to [dialog.url.bot](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.url.bot), `dialogAdaptiveCard` to [dialog.adaptiveCard](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.adaptivecard), and `dialogAdaptiveCardBot` to [dialog.adaptiveCard.bot](/javascript/api/@microsoft/teams-js/dialog.adaptivecard.bot).

**Optional** &ndash; Array

|Name| Type| Maximum size | Required | Description|
|---|---|---|---|---|

> | `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️|  List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the message extension to function properly, specified as name/value pairs, for example: `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `requirementSet.hostMustSupportFunctionalities`|Array of objects| |✔️| List of one or more runtime capabilities that are required for the message extension to function properly, specified as name/value pairs. For example, `{ "name": "dialogUrl" }`. Supported values: `dialogUrl`, `dialogUrlBot`, `dialogAdaptiveCard`, `dialogAdaptiveCardBot`. |
```
